# bulk-pdf-workflow
Starter architecture to allow bulk PDF creation from source file for invoices / mail merge etc

When there is a need to rapdily create a simple generic data loading / transform / publish application with a web interface this repo provides a set of tools that can be used as a generic starter.
Ultimately the aim is to provide each architectural component across different technology sets ( Languages / frameworks etc).

# Objectives



# Functional Requirements

* Input source loader: 
* Data Field Validation
* Data Field Tranform
* Document Template
* Document Render

# Proof of Concept Demo / Initial Assumption Validation

Before working on a complete solution I will test my assumptions about the suitability of each of the functional components.

## Source Data Loader

Web page that allows XLS, CSV or Archives to be uploaded into a session.

## HTML5 WYSIWYG-ish Template 

Ideally would want to construct /refine or edit the location of rendered field transform constructs using a html5 canvas. Ideally this would streamline the design and maintenance process.


## PDF Render from Template 

A template was created by taking a staement PDF generated by Xero and modified using Adobe Illustrator.


## Backend Architecture

Currently a web server backend with persistence db is considered the preferred architecture. 
Functional services to perform data to rendered component mapping to be generalised into a SOA integrated using a standardised REST API. This approach allows multiple platforms to be brough together.


# Notes

Using ImageMagick to convert pdf to jpg .. handy for use inside web GUI layout editor.

## Tech Component Links

[HTML5 Canvas Draggable](https://simonsarris.com/making-html5-canvas-useful/) : Could be useful approach to adding WYSIWYG PDF layout designer. THinking that interpolated components represented as fixed size blocks that can be placed on a background JPEG capture of the PDF template.


[Angular2 File Upload](https://github.com/valor-software/ng2-file-upload) : allow CSV/Zip/PDF/XLS files to be dragged into a web session context

[Angular CLI](https://cli.angular.io/) used as a modern web front-end framework. 

[Google Blockly](https://developers.google.com/blockly/) could be incorporated to provide admin staff with an assisted programming IDE to define or refine the business rules through a simplified browser blocks interface as used by Scratch etc.


````bash
convert           \
   -verbose       \
   -density 150   \
   -trim          \
    test.pdf      \
   -quality 100   \
   -flatten       \
   -sharpen 0x1.0 \
    test.jpg
````

